Belfast Grad Program - Tech Challenge(Prime) - Holly Bailey

Plan :-
I read through the brief and picked out the required information.

Inputs:
Input 1 - Username (No validation explicitly mentioned but check for bad inputs eg stop people being able to input code.)
Input 2 - Numeric value (No spaces or letters, try to use a factory pattern)
Input 3 - File (No naming convention, should hold unique values)

Outputs:
Output 1 - Logs different severity based on if there is an input error or if it is performing correctly.
Output 2 - Cache holding unique primes (most likely an array)
Output 3 - File again holding the unique primes (need to make sure there is no duplicates in the file)

Ways to check for prime numbers:
1 is never a prime (special case), 2 and 3 are always prime.
2 methods of looping through to check for other factors.
First is checking every number upto half of the number eg if checking 100 you would check upto 50.
Second is more efficient by checking up to the square root of a number this would rely on a library to do.
The second can also be made quicker by knowing that every prime number fits into 6k+1 or 6k-1
As the brief asks for the logic, I have decide to partially use the second method but without relying on the java math library.
Todo this I will loop though each number upto half way but if the number is not a factor, I will then check its square and see if that is greater than the number we are checking.
E.G. for 17 the loop will be looking at all numbers up to 9, however when we get to 5 it will stop as 5*5 is 25 which is bigger than 17.


Possible Packages and their files:
Runner - PrimeRunner (main file that is used to start, defines the file name)
Handler - Reader (File reader), Writer (File writer)
Calc - PrimeCalculator
Model - holds the factory patterns

Possible Methods:
Method 1 - Get the user inputs
Method 2 - Get the file inputs
Method 3 - Calculate primes *
Method 4 - Append to file
Method 5 - Get the numbers from the sequence

Tests:
Test 1 - User input validations (Correct inputs)
Test 2 - User input validations (erroneous)
Test 3 - File reader (correct pathway with data)
Test 4 - File reader (correct pathway without data)
Test 5 - File reader (incorrect pathway)

Assumptions:
Assumption 1 - Eventhough a username is taken it is not used for anything, I may use in the output log.
Assumption 2 - How many times should this run? My plan is on start up it runs once and then gives the option to continue and run again.
Assumption 3 - File name can be hard coded as this is a basic app and does not really require a configurable path name.
Assumption 4 - File only needs to be read once at the start of the application. File is written to after each set of numbers is checked. Cache holds all.
Assumption 5 - We should avoid using the pre built functions for checking prime numbers

Logging:
Info logs - highlighting important steps
Error logs - In the most common fail places to inform what happened
Debug logs - Additional information so issues can be tracked via logs to see what should be happening

Final File Structure:
GradTechChallengeApplication - Main method
PrimeRunner - Has startup method to read the file and take in a username, Also has a call method which takes in the sequence then calls the prime number file and then gets a response if to go again and feeds that back to main method.
PrimeNumbers - Holds all the calculations, will first call factory class to verify the sequence, if no issues will split sequence down into an array, each number is then looped through checking if we already have found it as a prime in this sequence, its in our cache or will use mathematical logic to work out if prime.
FileReader - Just reads the data from the file and puts in cache
PrimeWriter - Writes only newly found primes to the file.
model Directory - This holds the factory class and patterns. Called to check if a sequence is correct.